Hi and welcome to the video on the second application of closures.
So here we're going to start with a very simple Kloser that's essentially going to be a counter.
So we'll want to be able to provide an initial value and then this quarter will just increment that
value by one every time.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So let's create count and we want to pass an initial value.
Now we want the initial value to be defined when we create this increment.
So it's going to be a variable a parameter of the counter and it's going to be a local variable accounted
for and we don't have anything else and we're going to create our in a function think which is going
to be incremental and will allow also specifying what the increment should be and we'll default it to
1.
And if we want we can even add a default of zero for the initial value.
And what are we going to do when we're going to assert our initial value of salt.
Now our initial value really is our current value but it's the initial value.
And we're going to increment by increment and then we're going to return the initial value and then
we have to return our quarter.
So you'll notice that Anke is a closure because it's referencing initial value it's saying initial value
plus equals increment.
So initial value is the initial value from counter.
So hopefully again you'll realize that there's a problem here.
We're assigning something to initial value when Python sees that it says ah initial value is a local
variable therefore.
But in this case it's not we want it to be the non-local variable that's in the external or you know
out of function.
So we have to specify non-local initial value.
Okay.
And now everything should work just fine and we can create a counterfeit let's say count of 1 that's
equal to.
Now we're going to call the account a function and we'll just differ let it default to 0.
So now we have that and if we call Count 1 we get one we get counted for called Count 1 again we get
2 and so on.
So this is a very simple closure that basically allows us to define a counter and we can specify both
the stamp value and the step.
Then if you think back to a few videos back we did the same thing but we used like two nested functions.
And I'd mention at the time that there's actually an easier way of doing it.
While this is a much easier way of doing it but at the time I wanted to show you nested closures here
we don't require nested closures.
OK so now we have that let's expand this a little bit.
And what I want to be able to do is I want to be able to maintain a count of how many times a function
has been run.
So I want to be able to do that in my programs.
So let's see how we might do something like that.
So I'm going to call it counter's.
So I'm not going to specify an initial value that's always going to be zero.
Right.
How many times has a function been called initially 0 times.
But what I do want to pass in is the function that I'm going to call cabe.
So I'm going to pass in the function so this is a higher order function already.
Right.
Because it's taking in a function as a parameter.
And I'm going to set my count equal to zero.
OK then I'm going to call in a while I'm going to call in.
I'm going to define in here and it is going to be a function that takes in an arbitrary number of positional
parameters and an arbitrary number of key what only parameters.
Why am I doing that.
Well you'll see first of all let me make a count non-local.
I want to be able to increment count.
So there we go non-local.
And then I can say count plus two equals one.
Right so I'm incrementing count by 1 which count while the counting the closure and then next I'm going
to just print out so this week so we can see the message that has been called of 1 times can and will
format.
And what are we going to passen we're going to pass in the name of the function.
So if done in the name and then we also want to pass in the count.
So we'll say you know all this function has been called one times two times three times however many
times it is.
And then what are we going to do.
Well we want the in a function to basically now execute that function to call that function.
So it's going to call the function passing in whatever arguments we have in store hours in Stockwell.
So it's going to basically take any positional and any keyword parameters and throw them back to the
function.
So this in a function is essentially going to kind of replace our function FM because it's going to
call it for us.
So we're not going to call f and directly we're going to call it indirectly by using this in a function
here.
That's our closure.
The only thing it does extra about from just running the function is to keep track of how many times
it's been called.
So now we have to of course remember to return the closures.
So there we go.
So now we have that and let's define a couple of functions let's say and a B.
And that's going to return a plus b and then maybe molt a common B and it will return a tiny bit.
Right.
So we have these two functions addition and multiplication.
So now what we can do.
Well we can say counter add.
So this is a function that we all going to get by calling counting.
So we're going to call counter and we're going to pass it the add function.
You'll notice we're not passing the arguments of and we're just passing em because that's all that we
need for counting.
We will pass in the arguments to and when we call the closure because the closure they will capture
these arguments and then pass them along to the original function which in this case now is going to
be.
And so now we have our closure.
Right.
This is just a closure.
I can see it this way.
Right.
And we have two things in the closure.
What are they.
Well we have AFN and C.A. right.
We have both of these things that are part of the closure because they are local variables to counter
but they're being referenced inside in it.
So we can look at our counter and code the code for rounds and you can see that the free variables are
C.A. and F-in as expected.
So now we can call it and say count.
And now how do we call it count.
Add is what it's the inner function that will do some things and then call F-in.
So we need to pass it the arguments that we want to provide to a to add just as if we had called add
directly.
So let's say 10 and 20.
And as you can see we get our result of Thirlby that's what comes back from those counted up.
And right.
So if you want to make it stand out even more when you call it it's been called now two times.
Yeah we called counter add two times.
That's what it's doing it's counting how many times we're calling the closure.
And this court has been called two times.
And then the result is the result of adding 10 to 20.
Now of course we could say count palm note equals Callanan moÍt right.
So now we're going to track how many times we're calling this function over here.
And we can say Kelner ought to call him a 5.
Right.
So that's good.
What am I doing.
Sorry about that.
The Colts Kelner melt execute that.
And then we can count.
Call count a multi let's say with two and five and we get that mulct has been called one times and the
result of that multiplication is 10.
All right.
So very simple extension to our original count.
We can now count the number of times a function has been called.
So now let's take it a step further.
And let's do this so that instead of just having the you know the function defined inside and the name
being written in the print I may want to store that value somewhere and not just have it print it out.
So to do this we're going to create a global variable that's essentially going to be a dictionary that
contains the name of the function has its key and the number of times it's been called as a value.
So let's go ahead and do that and we're going to use there for a global variable here.
And we're going to start with an empty dictionary right.
So Kalmus is an empty dictionary.
Now we have to define our Kelner function and what is it going to take.
Well once more it's going to take efen as an argument.
Right.
We're going to pass of the function that we want to keep track of.
Now if we're going to say count equals zero just as before.
And in a function is going to be the same it's going to be Starns stuff qualms.
So it's going to basically capture the parameters the arguments needed to call the function f then once
it's done with whatever it needs to do.
Well what does it need to do.
It needs to make a non-local count and then it's going to increment count by 1 right.
Because once we call the closure we're going to be calling the function.
So it's increment the count.
Now however what we want to do well we want to store how many times this has been run called in the
counters object in the count is dictionary.
So we're going to say counters and then the key is going to be the name of the function.
And it's going to be equal to count.
So now you'll notice that we have a few things going on here.
Count is a non-local variable but calendar's hasn't been a you know is not being assigned a value because
if you think about this this is not an assignment to counter's it's an assignment to an element of Cowen's
so yes.
And which counters do we want.
We want the global count.
So yeah you could certainly do.
Right.
That's fine.
That will work just fine.
But that's we don't need to do this.
So now we've assigned that and we're going to return efen stands up starstuff quolls.
So basically whatever we pass then we'll pass back to the function f and call it and grab the return
value and then return that from our closure.
And then of course we need to return the closure itself.
So now we have something that's a little bit more general.
Right now we could do something like this.
We could say counted add equals counter add and counted most Newport's counter mode.
Okay.
So now we've got these two functions counter add or counted add and that's called counted mulct which
are which have been run through calendar.
So we've got a closer back to different quarters of course.
But those are two different clauses are still talking essentially to the same global variable.
So now we can call counted had 10 20 we can say counted and 20 30 right.
We get the value back that we would expect from the add function but now we can look at the calendars
collection and we can see that we have and was called two times.
We now call counted most let's say two and five it we get the value back 10 and then Kallas the global
counter's has now this function melt.
OK.
All right.
So that was.
And that does kind of what we wanted to do.
The only thing here is that I'm realizing this this function here counts.
Right.
And the closure in here relies on the fact that there is a global variable called counties.
So instead of doing that because I don't want to have to we are always remembered say well what should
the name of the dictionary be.
Because it essentially is what I've done of hand-coded the name of the dictionary inside this closure.
Right.
So there's closure.
This is a global variable.
I still want it to be potentially a global variable but I don't want to have to always have to remember
that I have to define Calamus first.
So let's go ahead and modify this slightly now.
We're going to basically pass in the dictionary so it will get a pass in the calendar's dictionary and.
So no.
Notice what happens.
Yes we still have this calendars.
That's a global variable right there in the global scope.
But now this calendar is that's over here.
It's going to refer to which one.
Well pythons are going to look at this and it's going to look in the inclosing scope first and it finds
it as a local variable.
So it's a going to think OK count this as a non-local variable.
And again for the same reason we didn't have to specify global counter's we don't have to specify non-local
counter's since we're not modifying what counter's is.
We're just modifying the contents of counters just like when we modify the contents of a list.
So now we can call it this way we can say let's say see quolls a new dictionary object.
And now I can say count counted as equals counter and and see.
Right.
And then we can say counted most equals counter.
I can type of mult and C K.
So now we have these two again functions and we can call them just as before counted.
Add 10.
Now before I do that them and show you what the count is global variable contains right.
It has that.
Now I'm going to call counter that rather than 20 when called counted.
Mulct to come up 5 and we'll call it again counted molt three commas six.
OK.
Now if we look at the global Kelvins it's all the same as two multis 1.
But if we look at c which is the variable we use you could see that add is 1 in multis two guys.
Yeah we called add once and multiply twice.
All right.
So you can see how we were able to essentially modify what you don't multa did we we still retained
the multiplication was told we could retain the result of multiplying or adding these two values.
But we added some extra functionality using a closure which is counting how many times they've been
called.
And you could do this of other things as well like timing a function for example.
Now as one last example of using count for these functions let's go ahead and write a factorial function.
So let's go ahead and write factorial.
And so it's going to calculate the factorial.
Now I'm not going to use recursion instead I'm just going to do is using a loop for so for I in range
and we'll start at 2 am and at.
And so we need to go to end plus 1 and we'll say the product is equal to the product times.
And then we'll return product.
So this will calculate the factorial.
We can calculate the factorial of three would get 6 the factorial of 5 right.
We get hundred twenty and so on you can say callid fact equals counted or counted in factorial.
And of course we need to pass in the dictionary see.
OK.
So now we can say counted fact five right and we get 120 back.
And of course if we look at see we now see that fact was it was called once.
But what I want to show here is that we don't have to rename this to counted fact and instead of assigning
it to counted fact I'm going to assign it to the same name.
And we need see hopefully our to keep remembering that one.
OK.
So fact now is no longer this function over here.
Right.
If we look at fact now it is indeed a closure.
And so we have three things in the closure what do we have while we have the integer which is the count
we have the dictionary object which is that C that we passed in and we have the function object which
is the function that we pass to right at located in three different cells.
So as you can see fact now works just as before.
Remember I could call fact three.
Now I can do that and I can call fact five and so on.
The only difference is that there's something extra going on if I look at c you can see that it's been
called a few more times.
Right.
It's called fact 10.
And let's look at c and fact is now three.
And of course I can do the same thing with and I can say add equals can range add a C and I can say
molts equals are counted in mult commas C and I can still call add just as before.
So now right.
I don't have to change the function name.
It looks the same but it's not quite the same function.
It's been modified to add some extra stuff.
And yet I can still call the function as if I was using the original function right.
My original factorial function was this one but I've essentially modified that function.
So we added an extra bit.
Right.
Our original function was factorial or add on mult.
We still are able to call factorial at or mult.
In fact we call it using the same label but that label now has changed.
What it really is before it was the original add mold.
In fact functions now it's the closure and the closure basically still executes the original function
but does some extra bit.
And that leads us directly into our next video which is going to be on decorator's.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.